# Crossfeed
Externalisation of headphone audio, implemented as VST3 using the JUCE framework. Stereo audio played through headphones has no crossfeed (mixing of the left and right channels) unlike audio from well-placed studio monitors, and this makes the stereo image sound unnaturally wide. This makes it hard to judge the stereo image for mixing purposes, and can also be unpleasant for long periods of listening ("headphone fatigue"). One solution is crossfeed, that is, to mix the the left and right channels of stereo audio in a certain proportion, adjusting for a simulated time delay. This plugin estimates the Inter-aural Time Difference (ITD) of symmetrically placed speakers at a custom angle to introduce crossfeed between the left and right channels of stereo audio. This is not enough however; the delayed signal will cause catastrophic phase cancellations, typically in the midrange for a realistic head width and speaker distance. In real environments this is not noticeable because of the acoustic shadow of the head, which acts as a low-pass filter, as well room reflections. To simulate some of this stuff, the plugin also approximates the effect of the acoustic shadow of the head using a single-pole lowpass filter. This introduces a non-linear phase distortion of the crossfeed signal, preventing it from causing phase cancellations with the original audio. This plugin is compatible with any DAW that supports VST3 plugins. You'll have to compile it yourself, for which you need Visual Studio C++ and the JUCE library. If that sounds like too much to do, email me and I'll be happy to send you an executable copy (regretably I can only do this for Windows). 
